I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 1A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
wxl 1885$31 - 2014 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 22 jeks nodod - 2014'10'22
No. 1885/31 - WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
MINUTE OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE
THE Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Principals Service as set out hereunder is substituted for the Service Minute of the Sri
Lanka Principals Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No.1086/26 of 02.07.1999 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments made thereto from time to time without prejudice to any action taken or purported
to have been taken thereunder.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
T. M. L. C. SENARATNA,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
21st October, 2014.
01. Effective Date :
This Minute of the Sri Lanka Principals Service shall come into force with effect from 01st of July, 2008.
02. Appointing Authority :
2.1 Public Service Commission is the Appointing Authority of the officers of Class 1 of the Principals Service
of the National Schools and the institutions under the purview of the Ministry and of the Principals of
National Schools.
2.2 The Secretary of the line Ministry in charge of the subject of education is the appointing Authority of the
appointments of the Principals of Class 1, 2 and 3 not falling under 2.1 above.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
03. Category of Service / Categories of Service :
3.1 Category of service: The Sri Lanka Principals Service
3.2 Class - Class 3
Class 2
Class 1
04. The Role :
The officers of the Principals Service should carry out all the functions concerning school administration and
management including the duties that are assigned in connection with the conduct of national level examinations
and other examinations relating to the education of the government schools under the administration of the line
Ministry and Provincial Education Ministries in conformity to the National Education Policy in addition to the
duties involving education as decided upon and required by the government for implementation through schools
towards strengthening of the sports activities and other subject related work in schools as well as the process of
learning and teaching.
05. Salary :
5.1 Salary Code - GE - 4 - 2006
5.2 Salary Scale
Rs. 17,060 – 7 X 330 – 6 X 400 – 11 X 645 – 14 X 790 – Rs. 39,925
5.3 Respective class system and initial salary step pertaining to each class:
Class Salary Scale Initial Salary Point
3 Step 1 Rs. 17,060
2 Step 8 Rs. 19,370
1 Step 15 Rs. 22,415
06. Posts belonging to the Service :
6.1 Posts belonging to the Service :
Approved titles Approved grade Approved cadre Duties
of the posts of the post
Assistant Principal Grade II 901 i. To assist in the school administration under the
Grade III 510 control and supervision of the Principal.
ii. To carry out assigned duties in relation to the
examinations conducted at the school level.
iii. To contribute towards learning and teaching
process.
Deputy Principal Grade I 1327 iv. To perform activities of subject related duties.
Grade II 2495 v. Other duties assigned by the Principal.
Grade III 1467 vi. To carry out duties decided upon as being liable
to be implemented at the school level by the
government.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 3A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
Approved titles Approved grade Approved cadre Duties
of the posts of the post
(i) To perform duties assigned by the education
authorities appropriately conducting the school
Principal Grade I 2205 administration and management in conformity
Grade II 2716 to the National Education Policy.
Grade III 4891 (ii) To properly maintain and supervise the process
of learning and teaching, activities relating to
subject evaluation and physical resources of the
school.
6.2 Consolidated number of posts:
Grade Number
Grade I 3532
Grade II 6112
Grade III 6868
Consolidated number of posts: 16512
All of the Grades III, II and I are reckoned as a consolidated cadre when promotions are made.
Note : (i) The cadre may be varied from time to time on the exigency of the education system subject
to approval of the Department of Management Services.
(ii) Where recruitments are made for the vacancies in the approved cadre
they are made separately in both the media of Sinhala and Tamil according to number of
vacancies existing as Sinhala and Tamil medium.
6.3. Nature of the Posts:
Posts are permanent and pensionable.
07. Method of Recruitment to Service :
7.1 Percentage of recruitment
Stream Percentage
Open Not Applicable
Limited 100%
7.2 Limited Recruitment :
7.2.1 Class to which recruitment is made ; Class 3 of the Sri Lanka Principals Service
7.2.2 Qualifications :
Teachers of The Sri Lanka Teachers Service who possess following qualifications and who are
confirmed in the service are eligible to sit the limited competitive examination.
4 – PG 22114A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
7.2.2.1 Educational and Professional Qualifications :
(i) Bachelor of Education Degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission or from the National Institute of Education.
OR
(ii) Degree in any area of subject recognized by the University Grants Commission
WITH
Post Graduate Diploma in Education.
OR
Trained Teacher Certificate.
OR
(iii) National Diploma in Teaching / Trained Teacher Certificate
7.2.2.2 Experience :
Should be an officer who has completed Five (05) years of satisfactory service in the Sri Lanka
Teachers Service in which he fulfilled qualifications under (i) or (ii) of 7.2.2.1 or Six (06) years of
satisfactory service in the Sri Lanka Teachers Service in which he fulfilled qualifications under (iii) of
7.2.2.1 and earned all salary increments due to him during such period.
7.2.2.3 Physical and Mental Fitness :
Every candidate should be physically and mentally sound enough to serve and perform duties in any
part of the island.
7.2.2.4 Other :
(i) No candidate is allowed to vie for the competitive examination for recruitment to the Principals
Service for more than three (03) sittings.
(ii) Every candidate should have fulfilled all the required qualifications in every respect to sit the
competitive examination for recruitment to the Principals Service as at the date on which the
relevant Gazette Notification so requires.
(iii) Should have been confirmed in the Sri Lanka Teachers Service.
7.2.3 Age: Maximum age will be 50 years.
7.2.4 Method of Recruitment :
7.2.4.1 Written Examination :
A written examination comprising three (03) question papers will be held. The syllabus for the written
examination is at Appendix "A".
Subjects Maximum Marks Passable Marks (Minimum)
Comprehension 100% 40%
Case study on school administration 100% 40%
Aptitude and General Knowledge 100% 40%I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 5A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
Conducting Authority - Commissioner General of Examinations
7.2.4.2 Trade Test – Not applicable
7.2.4.3 General and Structured Interview :
7.2.4.3.1 General Interview:
(cid:190) Based on the aggregate of marks obtained at the written examination, candidates constituting
twice the number of vacancies in the order of merit of the highest marks will be called for the
general interview. Those who are found to be eligible from such interview will be called for the
structured interview.
(cid:190) Objectives to be achieved: To ascertain as to whether the qualifications referred to in 7.2.2
above and the basic qualifications referred to in the notification published for recruitment have
been met and to determine on the competency concerned.
7.2.4.3.2 Structured Interview:
(cid:190) A presentation outlining topics with regard to Role of the Principal has to be made.
25 marks will be awarded for it.
(Criteria of assigning marks at this structured interview are given in 4.2 of Appendix A.)
7.2.4.4 Appointing Authority of the Board of Interview -
Secretary of the line Ministry in charge of the subject of education.
7.2.4.5 Board of Interview
The board of interview should constitute three persons, the Chairman of which will be a Class I
Officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service and the other two should comprise from among an
Officer of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, an Officer of Tamil medium and an Officer
outside the Ministry of Education.
Note:- Vacancies will be filled in the order of merit of the highest aggregate marks achieved at the written examination
and the structured interview as referred to above.
7.2.5 The method of forwarding applications to sit the examination and the necessary fees payable will be
published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or in the newspapers.
08. Efficiency Bar
8.1
Which of the Before how many years the Efficiency Nature of the Efficiency Bar:
Efficiency Bars Bar to be passed Written Examination / Trade
Test /Certificate Course / Other
1st Efficiency Bar Before Three (03) years following the recruitment Written Examination
to Class 3 of the Sri Lanka Principals Service (Refer Appendix B)
2nd Efficiency Bar Before Three (03) years following the recruitment to Written Examination
Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Principals Service (Refer Appendix C)6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
8.2 Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examinations are held – The Efficiency Bar Examination
will be held at least twice a year.
8.3 Conducting Authority of the Efficiency Bar Examination - Commissioner General of Examinations.
09. Language Proficiency
9.1
Language Proficiency to be acquired
Other Official Language In terms of P.A. Circular No.01/2014
Link Language All officers of the Service should acquire proficiency in the link language, English
during the period of three (03) years from the date of recruitment. Where an officer has
gained at least a credit or higher pass in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination, he is exempted
from the requirement of passing over the English Language test. Other officers should
pass the test referred to in Appendix D herein appended.
9.2 Frequency at which the tests are held - Tests are held at least once a year.
9.3 Conducting Authority of the test - Commissioner General of Examinations
10. Promotions to Grades
10.1 Promotion to Grade II from Grade III of the Service
10.1.1. Requirements to be fulfilled -
(i) Should have been confirmed in the Service.
(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of at least six (06) years in Class 3 of the
Service on the date of becoming eligible for promotion and earned six (06) salary increments.
(iii) Should have passed the 1st efficiency bar examination on the prescribed date.
(iv) Should have passed or had exempted from the other official language.
(v) Should have passed or had exempted from the link language.
(vi) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory or higher level during the period of 6 years
preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance evaluation procedure.
(vii) Should have completed a satisfactory period right throughout the period of five (05) years immediately
prior to acquiring qualifications for promotion.
(viii) Should have passed the capacity building training course 1.
10.1.2 Method of Promotion
The Appointing Authority, when those officers who meet with necessary qualifications forward
their applications in the prescribed form to him, will, following the scrutiny of qualifications, make the
appointment to Class 2 with effect from the date on which they become eligible. The form of application
concerned is at Appendix E.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 7A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
10.2 Promotion to Grade I from Grade II of the Service
10.2.1. Requirements to be fulfilled -
(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of at least six (06) years in Class 2 of the
Service on the date of becoming eligible for promotion and earned six (06) salary increments.
(ii) Should have passed the 2nd efficiency bar examination on the prescribed date.
(iii) Should have completed a satisfactory period right throughout the period of five (05) years
immediately prior to acquiring qualifications for promotion.
(iv) Should have shown a performance at satisfactory or higher level during the period of six (06)
immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance evaluation procedure.
(v) Should have completed a Post Graduate Diploma in Education or Bachelor of Education.
(vi) Should have completed Diploma in School Management (DSM) or Post Graduate Diploma in
Education Management (PGDEM).
(vii) Should have passed the Capacity Building Training Course 2.
10.2.2. Method of Promotion
The Appointing Authority, when those officers who meet with necessary qualifications forward their
applications in the prescribed form to him, will, following the scrutiny of qualifications, make the appointment
to Class 1 with effect from the date on which they become eligible. The form of application concerned is at
Appendix "F".
11. Appointment to Posts
Post Method of selection
01 Officers of Class 1 of the Sri Lanka Appointments will be made by the Public Service Commission
Principals Service and Principals of the in pursuance of the recommendation of a Board of Interview
National Schools or Institutions under the constituting three members appointed by the Public
purview of the Ministry of the Minister in Service Commission.
charge of the subject of Education (These recommendations will be made in accordance with a
marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission.)
02 Officers of Class 2 and 3 of the Sri Lanka The Secretary of the Ministry of Education will appoint
Principals Service and Deputy and Assistant aspirant officers in accordance with their seniority and merit.
Principals of the National Schools or
Institutions under the purview of the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Education
03 Principals, Deputy Principals and Assistant The Provincial Authorities will appoint aspirant officers in
Principals of the Provincial Schools accordance with their seniority and merit.
12. Conditions of Service
Officers of the Sri Lanka Principals Service are required to serve in the approved posts of the national schools
and provincial schools. In this case, the officer selected for serving in a post of Provincial Public Service will
temporarily be released to serve in a post of the respective Provincial Public Service. The period so required to
serve will be determined based on the consent reached between the respective Provincial Authority and the
Appointing Authority according to the exigencies of service, need to employ staff and other related matters.8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
(i) A letter of release to the Provincial Public Service subject to the conditions on the release from service
will be issued to the officer concerned by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) The placements and transfers within the province will be made by the respective Provincial Authorities.
(iii) The officer, at the end of the period of release to Provincial Public Service, should revert to his substantial
post.
13. Skill Development
13.1 Induction Training :
All officers of the Sri Lanka Principals Service recruited to this service should complete the induction
training on school management over a period of one month conducted by a training institute determined
by Secretary of the Ministry of Education and be successful at the written and practical test conducted at
the conclusion of such training, failure of which would result in the reversion to their former service viz, Sri
Lanka Teachers Service. (At this practical test, a presentation under a selected topic should be made and
the scheme awarding marks for this purpose is set out in 4.2 of Appendix "A".)
13.2 Capacity building
13.2.1 Capacity Building Training Course - 1
All officers within six (06) years of the appointment to the Principals Service should pass the capacity
building training course 1 over a period of one month conducted by an institute authorized by the
Secretary of Education of the line Ministry.
13.2.2 Capacity Building Training Course - 2
All officers within six (06) years of the appointment to Grade 2 of the Principals Service should pass
the capacity building training course 2 over a period of one month conducted by an institute authorized
by the Secretary of Education of the line Ministry.
14. Definitions
(i) The term "Gazette" shall mean the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The term "Service Minute" shall mean the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Principals Service.
(iii) The term "Commission" shall mean the Public Service Commission.
(iv) The term "Active period of service" shall mean the period of service in the actual engagement of duties of
an officer at a government school drawing the salaries in respect of his post. All periods of no pay leave
other than the maternity leave approved by the government will not be reckoned for the purpose of the
active period of service.
(v) The term "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the line Ministry in charge of the subject of education.
(vi) The term "Service" shall mean the Sri Lanka Principals Service.
(vii) The term "Ministry" shall mean the line Ministry in charge of the subject of education.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 9A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
(viii) The term "National Diploma in Teaching" shall mean the National Diploma in Teaching obtained from a
College of Education under the purview of the Ministry of Education.
(ix) The term "Trained Teacher Certificate" shall mean an institutional teacher training course of a duration not
less than two years approved by the Ministry of Education or a teacher training course of a duration not
less than three years followed via distant learning method approved by the Ministry of Education.
15. When recruitments are made to the Service, the number so enrolled in a year shall be the number equivalent to the
number of vacancies as at the 30th of June of that particular year.
16. In addition to the requirements stated in this Minute, all officers should duly acquire necessary competencies
and skills as decided by the government from time to time.
17. Absorption of those who are in service
17.1 Absorption of officers who are in service as at the date on which this Service Minute comes into force to
the grade structure under new Service Minute will be made in terms of Schedule II of the Public Administration
Circular No.6/2006 of 05.01.2010 and the payment of salary in arrears related thereto will be made in terms
of section 2.3 of the Public Administration Circular 28/2010 of 31.12.2010.
17.2 Officers who are in service as at the date on which this Service Minute comes into force will be absorbed
into the reorganized Sri Lanka Principals Service as follows subject to provisions in section 04 of Chapter
VII of the Establishments Code.
However no change in the salary or the date of increment of the person concerned should occur due to the
absorption and such date should remain to be in force as the date of his increment as was previously
existed. Likewise, due to reason that the salary step the person concerned was drawing last corresponds
to the new salary step, he should not be placed on the next higher salary step either in terms of Section 4.4
of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.
17.3 An officer in service who has not reached his optional age of retirement by the date on which this Service
Minute comes into force should, on application, be given the opportunity to express his option to retire
from the service under Section 7 of the Minute on Pensions. Such option may be exercised by her / him
within 2 years from the date on which this Service Minute comes into force, provided the Public Service
Commission is satisfied that he / she has been adversely affected by the provisions of this Service Minute
to such an extent as to justify the grant of such concession.
17.4 The procedure of absorption
17.4.1 All officers who are in Class 3 of the Sri Lanka Principals Service as at the date on which this Service
Minute comes into force will be absorbed into Class 3 of the Service.
17.4.2 All officers who are in Class 2 Grade II of the Sri Lanka Principals Service as at the date on which this
Service Minute comes into force will be absorbed into Class 2 of the Service.
17.4.3 All officers who are in Class 2 Grade I of the Sri Lanka Principals Service as at the date on which this
Service Minute comes into force and who, on 01.07.2008, has fulfilled qualifications to be promoted
to Class 1 of the Principals Service in terms of the previous Service Minute will be absorbed into
Class 1 of the Service and all other officers of Class 2 Grade I will be absorbed into Class 2 of the
Service.
17.4.4 All officers who are in Class 1 of the Sri Lanka Principals Service as at the date on which this Service
Minute comes into force will be absorbed into Class 1 of the Service.
17.5 For the purpose of reckoning the required period of service when promotions are made under this
Service Minute following the absorption, the period of service in the class or grade of the previous
Principals Service prior to the absorption will also be taken into account.10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
17.6 The processing of salaries consequent upon the absorption should be made in terms of the Public
Administration Circular 6/2006 (viii).
17.7 The date of salary increment will not be changed in view of the absorption.
18. The Interim Provisions
The interim provisions will remain in force until 01.01.2016.
18.1 Promotion in the interim period :
18.1.1 Promotion to Grade II -
During the interim period when promoting officers in Class 3 to Grade II who have passed the 1st
Efficiency Bar Examination specified in the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Principals Service
No.1086/26 of 02.07.1999 will be exempted from the requirement of passing over the Efficiency Bar
and the requirement of being successful at the Capacity Development Training Course 1 specified in
this Service Minute and promoted to Grade II of the Service as from the date on which they fulfill
other qualifications stipulated in Section 10.1.1 thereof.
18.1.2 Promotion to Grade I
Those officers who have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination and fulfill other qualifications
necessary to be promoted to Class 1 under the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Principals Service
No.1086/26 of 02.07.1999 will be exempted from the requirement of passing over the 1st and 2nd
Efficiency Bar Examinations and the Capacity Development Training Course 1 and 2 under this
Service Minute and promoted to Grade I of the Service as from the date on which they fulfill other
qualifications other than those in (v) and (vi) of 10.2.1.
For the promotion to Grade1, proficiency in the other official language and the link language should
be acquired in terms of Section 9.1of this Minute.
19. All officers of the Service are subject to the provisions of the Establishments Code and the Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 in addition to
the provisions laid down in this Minute.
20. Any matter not provided for in this Minute will be determined by the Public Service Commission in pursuance of
the recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject of education.
Appendix ‘A’
Details of the Limited Competitive Examination for the appointment to the Sri Lanka Principals Service
01. The written examination consists of the following question papers :
(i) Comprehension – 100 marks
(ii) Case Study on School Administration – 100 marks
(iii) Aptitude and General Knowledge – 100 marksI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 11A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
02. The Syllabus :
(i) Comprehension – 1 ½ Hours.
Questions will be set to assess the candidate’s ability to grasp the meaning and gauge the concising
knowledge of several passages.
(ii) Case Study on School Administration – 2 Hours.
Questions are presented with the objective of bringing out the candidates’ views and their
responsiveness to problem solving on few likely cases that might crop up in the schools and its
management.
(iii) Aptitude and General Knowledge – 1 ½ Hours.
It is hereby expected to gauge the candidates’ power of reasoning and understanding by way of assessing
awareness and knowledge of the cultural, educational, scientific, political and economic aspects and
other related matters of interest in the national, regional and global environment as well as in our own
society and also to test their judgment and responsiveness concerning problems presented in a verbalized,
statistical and illustrational context.
(cid:190) At least 40% of marks should be obtained to secure a pass in each subject.
03. (a) This examination will be held in the media of Sinhala and Tamil languages.
(b) Candidates should sit the examination in a medium of language of their choice. Candidates will not be
permitted to change the medium of examination given in their applications.
(c) Every candidate should appear for and answer all three question papers.
04. The Interview
4.1 The General Interview :
Candidates numbering twice the number of respective vacancies based on the order of their highest
aggregate marks obtained at the written examination will be called for the general interview. Those
qualified from the general interview will be called for the structured interview.
4.2 The Structured Interview :
A presentation on a topic concerning the role of the Principal should be made.
Criteria of assigning marks for the presentation -
1. Introduction - 04 Marks
2. Presentation layout - 04 Marks
3. Presentation skill - 08 Marks
4. Knowledge of the Subject - 05 Marks
5. Time Management - 04 Marks12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
Appendix ‘B’
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR CLASS 3 OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE
01. The Efficiency Bar Examination for Class 3 of the Service consists of following subjects :-
(i) Provisions of the Establishments Code and Procedural Rules
of the Public Service Commission – 100 Marks
(ii) Financial Administration in Schools and Financial Regulations – 100 Marks
02. An officer may offer the subjects concerned on one and the same occasion or on several occasions separately.
03. At least 40% of marks should be obtained to secure a pass in each of the question papers.
04. The Syllabus
(i) Provisions of the Establishments Code and Procedural Rules of the Public
Service Commission. – Duration of 02 hours.
Knowledge of the Chapters VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XXIII, XXV, XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII and the knowledge of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission will be tested.
(ii) Financial Administration in Schools and Financial Regulations – Duration of 02 hours.
General understanding on budget estimates, financial control and delegation of financial responsibilities,
acceptance, accounting and acquisition of cash, payments, custody of public finance, imprest and bank
accounts, works and services, survey of goods, audit queries, ledgers used in the government offices,
summaries of income and expenditure, bank reconciliations, unpaid wages, circulars issued on official
telephones and financial regulations will be tested.
05. (a) This examination will be held in the media of Sinhala and Tamil languages.
(b) Candidates should sit the examination in a medium of language of their choice. Candidates will not be
permitted to change the medium of examination given in their applications.
Appendix ‘C’
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR CLASS 2 OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE
01. The Efficiency Bar Examination for Class 2 of the Service consists of following subjects.
(i) School Administration and Supervision - 100 Marks
(ii) School Planning - 100 Marks
(iii) Modern Trends and Practices of Education - 100 Marks
02. An officer may offer the subjects concerned on one and the same occasion or on several occasions separately.
03. At least 40% of marks should be obtained to secure a pass in each of the question papers.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 13A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
04. The Syllabus
(i) School Administration and Supervision – Duration of 03 hours.
Questions will be included to examine the candidate’s knowledge and understanding of the role of a
Principal in the good governance of a school. Knowledge on areas such as school administration methods,
preparation of time tables, delegation of responsibilities, peoples participation in school development,
school based management, school based teacher development, teacher welfare, student friendly school
conception and student centric education.
(ii) School Planning – Duration of 03 hours.
Questions will be included to examine the candidate’s knowledge and understanding of the role of a
Principal as a pioneer in development. Knowledge on areas such as school management boards, vision
and mission of a school, formulation of school information bases, composite plans, long term and short
term plans, annual action plans, planning of school network and resources and contribution of the school
towards regional development will be tested.
(iii) Modern Trends and Practices of Education - Duration of 03 hours.
Knowledge of subjects such as new concepts on learning and teaching, learning through experience,logical
reasoning, equality in education, education to those with special needs, formal education and informal
education, elders education, lifelong education, skill based education, education for survival, student
counseling and professional counseling.
05. (a) This examination will be held in the media of Sinhala and Tamil languages.
(b) Candidates should sit the examination in a medium of language of their choice. Candidates will not be
permitted to change the medium of examination given in their applications.
Appendix ‘D’
ENGLISH LANGUAGE TEST FOR THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE
01. The English Language Test for the Sri Lanka Principals Service consists of one question paper.
(i) English – 100 Marks
02. At least 40% of marks should be obtained to secure a pass in this question paper.
03. The Syllabus :
General English – Duration of 03 hours.
Suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the written language is expected from the
candidate.
- Tenses and Numbers
- Sentences (Simple / Compound / Complex / Compound Complex)
- Relative Clauses
- Reported Speech
- Adjectives and Adverbs
- Determiners
- Prepositions14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in the following areas of study.
- Summary writing
- Report writing
- Essay writing
Appendix ‘E’
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE TO GRADE II
PART I
1. (a) Name with initials : Mr. / Mrs. / Ms. ………………………..…….……….....................
(b) Names denoted by initials : ………………………………………………………………
(c) Name previously used following the change of any names : .............................................
(Applicable only if any)
S 2. Date of birth : ……………………..
3. National Identity Card No. : ………………………...........
4. Private address : …………………………………………..
5. School serving as at present : ……………………………..
6. Position held as at present : ………………………………'
7. Zone of the school : ……………………………………….
8. Date of appointment to Class 3/Grade III of the Sri Lanka Principals Service : ……………..
9. No. of the letter of appointment to Class 3/Grade III of the Sri Lanka Principals Service :…......................
Date : …………………..
10. Date of confirmation in the appointment : …………………………
11. Date on which the 1st E.B. was passed and the Index No. concerned : ………………...
12. Date of completion of six (06) in Grade III: ………………………...
13. Level of performance shown during the six (06) years immediately preceding the promotion:
Year Level of performanceI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 15A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
14. Date on which the Capacity Building Training Course 1 was passed : ……………………..
15. Date on which the other official language was passed or exempted from the requirement of being passed :
……………..………. Ref. No. and date of such letter : …………………...
16. Date on which the link language was passed or exempted from the requirement of being passed :
……………..………. Ref. No. and date of such letter: …………………
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. I also wish to
undertake that if the particulars given herein are found to be false or incorrect before being promoted I am liable to be
disqualified and if so found after promotion that my promotion is liable to be revoked. I request that I be promoted to
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Principals Service.
Date : ………….… …………………………………
Signature of Candidate.
PART II
Provincial Director of Education,………………………..,
The information concerning Mr./Mrs. / Ms. ………………………………………. is correct.
(i) Has completed/Has not completed six (06) years of active service.
(ii) Has shown/Has not shown a performance of satisfactory or higher level during the period of six (06) years
immediately preceding the promotion.
(iii) Has not availed/Has availed half pay / no pay leave during the said period of six years.
(iv) Has not subjected/Has subjected to punishments other than warning during the said period.
(v) No disciplinary action pending/Disciplinary action pending against the officer.
(vi) All salary increments due for the period concerned have been earned / have not been earned.
(vii) Has been confirmed in the appointment from……………….. / Has not been confirmed in the appointment.
(viii) Has passed/Has not passed the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination.
(ix) Has passed/Has not passed the Capacity Building Training Course 1.
(x) Has completed/Has not completed the requirement of securing a pass in the other official language.
(xi) Has completed/Has not completed the requirement of securing a pass in the link language.
I recommend / do not recommend the promotion of the officer, …………………………………., Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Principals Service to Grade II of the Service with effect from…………………………..
Date : ……….. …………………………………..
Zonal Education Director.
Provincial Secretary of Education,
I recommend / do not recommend the promotion of the officer,……………………………………, Grade III of the
Sri Lanka Principals Service to Grade II of the Service with effect from…………………………..
Date : ……….. ………………………………………….
Provincial Director of Education.16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
I recommend /do not recommend the promotion of the officer,……………………………………, Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Principals Service to Grade II of the Service with effect from…………………………..
Date : …………. ……………………………………………
Provincial Secretary of Education.
Appendix ‘F’
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS SERVICE TO GRADE I
PART I
1. (a) Name with initials : Mr. / Mrs. / Ms. ………………………..…….……….....................
(b) Names denoted by initials : ………………………………………………………………
(c) Name previously used following the change of any names : .............................................
(Applicable only if any)
2. Date of birth : ……………………..
3. National Identity Card No. : ………………………...........
4. Private address : …………………………………………..
5. School serving as at present : ……………………………..
6. Position held as at present : ………………………………
7. Zone of the school : ……………………………………….
8. Class and date of first appointment to the Service : ………...................................................................……..
Date of confirmation in the appointment : ..........................................................................................................
9. No. of the letter of absorption or appointment to Grade II of the Service :...............................................….
Date : …………………..
10. Date on which the 1st E.B. was passed and the Index No. concerned : …………………................……...
11. Date on which the 2nd E.B. was passed and the Index No. concerned : ……...........................…………...
12. Date of completion of six (06) in Grade II : ……………...............................................................…………...
13. Level of performance shown during the six (06) years immediately preceding the promotion:
Year Level of performanceI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22 17A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
14. Date on which the Capacity Building Training Course 2 was passed : ……………………..
15. Date on which the Post Graduate Diploma in Education or the Bachelor of Education was passed : ..............................
.
16. Date on which the Diploma in School Management or the Post Graduate Diploma in Education Management was
passed : .................................................
17. Date on which other Official Language was passed or exempted from the requirement of being passed : ..............
Ref. No. & date of such letter : ...........................................
18. Date on which other Link Language was passed or exempted from the requirement of being passed : .............. Ref.
No. & date of such letter : ...........................................
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. I also wish to
undertake that if the particulars given herein are found to be false or incorrect before being promoted, I am liable to be
disqualified and if so found after promotion that my promotion is liable to be revoked. I request that I, be promoted to grade
I of the Sri Lanka Principals Service.
Date: ………….… …………………………………
Signature of candidate.
PART II
Provincial Director of Education,………………………..,
The information concerning Mr. / Mrs. / Ms. ………………………………………. is correct.
(i) Has completed / Has not completed six (06) years of active service.
(ii) Has shown / Has not shown a performance of satisfactory or higher level during the period of six (06) years
immediately preceding the promotion.
(iii) Has not availed / Has availed half pay / no pay leave during the said period of six years.
(iv) Has not subjected / Has subjected to punishments other than warning during the said period.
(v) No disciplinary action pending / Disciplinary action pending against the officer.
(vi) All salary increments due for the period concerned have been earned / have not been earned.
(vii) Has been confirmed in the appointment from……………….. / Has not been confirmed in the appointment.
(viii) Has passed / Has not passed the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination.
(ix) Has passed / Has not passed the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination.
(x) Has passed / Has not passed the Capacity Building Training Course 2.
(xi) Has completed / Has not passed the Post Graduate Diploma in Education or the Bachelor of Education.
(xii) Has passed/Has not passed the Diploma in School Management or the Post Graduate Diplom in Education
Managment;
(xiii) Has completed/Has not completed the requirement of securing a pass in the other official language.
(xiv) Has completed/Has not completed the requirement of securing a pass in the link language.
I recommend / do not recommend the promotion of the officer, …………………………………., Grade I of the
Service with effect from…………………………..
Date : ……….. …………………………………..
Zonal Education Director.18A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'22
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.10.2014
Provincial Secretary of Education,
I recommend / do not recommend the promotion of the officer,…………………………………… to Grade I of the
Service with effect from…………………………..
Date : ……….. ………………………………………….
Provincial Director of Education.
Secretary
Ministry of Education,
I recommend / do not recommend the promotion of the officer,…………………………………… to Grade I of the
Service with effect from…………………………..
Date : ……….. ………………………………………….
Provincial Secretary of Education.
11 - 92
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA