I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 1A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
wxl 1828$9 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ ui 17 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2013'09'17
No. 1828/9 - TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 10 OF 2006
Notice
IT is hereby notified under Section 97(1) (b) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, that the bilateral Agreement for
affording relief from double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion, entered into on 22.01.2013 between the Government of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of India is set out in the Government
hereto, has been approved by Parliament by resolution passed on 26.07.2013.
P. B. JAYASUNDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
16th September, 2013,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01.
SCHEDULE
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA
FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION
WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME
The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of India,
desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to
taxes on income and with a view to promoting economic co-operation between the two countries,
have agreed as follows :
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
ARTICLE 1
PERSONS COVERED
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracing States.
ARTICLE 2
TAXES COVERED
1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political
subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property and taxes on the total amounts of wages or salaries paid
by enterprises.
3. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular :
(a) In India : the income tax, including any surcharge thereon ; (hereinafter referred to as "Indian Tax") ;
(b) In Sri Lanka : the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises licensed by the
Board of Investment ; (hereinafter referred to as "Sri Lanka Tax").
4. The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes on income which are imposed after
the date of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The Competent Authorities of the
Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes that have been made in their respective taxation laws.
ARTICLE 3
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a) the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as
any other maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the
Indian Law and in accordance with International Law, including the U. N. Convention on the Law of the
Sea ;
(b) the term "Sri Lanka" means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, including its land
territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well as the exclusive economic zone and
continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka exercises or may hereafter exercise
sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with International Law and its national legislation ;
(c) the terms "Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean the Republic of India or the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as the context requires ;
(d) the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons and any other entity which is treated
as a taxable unit under the taxation Laws in force in the respective Contracting States ;
(e) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax
purposes ;
(f) the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any business ;I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 3A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
(g) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively
an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the
other Contracting State ;
(h) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterpirse of a
Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting
State ;
(i) the term "competent authority" means :
(i) in India : The Finance Minister, Government of India, or his authorized representative ;
(ii) In Sri Lanka : The Commissioner General of Inland Revenue ;
(j) the term "national' means :
(i) any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State ;
(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the Laws in force in a
Contracting State ;
(k) the term "tax" means Indian Tax or Sir Lanka Tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount
which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement applies
or which represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes ;
(l) the term "fiscal year" means :
(i) in the case of India : the financial year beginning on the 01st day of April ;
(ii) in the case of Sri Lanka : the assessment year beginning on the 01st day of April.
2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State any term not defined therein shall,
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the purposes
of the taxes to which the Agreement applies and any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing over a
meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
ARTICLE 4
RESIDENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of incorporation, place of management or
any other criterion of a similar nature and also includes that State and any political subdivision or local authority thereof. This
term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in that
State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows :
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him ; if
he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests) ;
(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent
home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an
habitual abode ;4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of
the State of which he is a national ;
(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States
shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, a person other than an individual is a resident of both
Contracting States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is
situated. If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent
authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 5
PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or party carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially :
(a) a place of management ;
(b) a branch ;
(c) an office ;
(d) a factory ;
(e) a workshop ;
(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources ;
(g) a farm, plantation or other place where agricultural, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on ;
(h) a sales outlet ;
(i) a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others.
3. (a) A building site or construction, installation or assembly project or a drilling rig or supervisory activities in
connection therewith constitutes a permanent establishment only if such site, project or activities last more
than 183 days ;
(b) The furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other
personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose constitutes a Permanent Establishment, but only
where activities of that nature continue (for the same or connected project) within the Contracting State for
a period or periods aggregating more than 90 days within any 12-month period.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not
to include :
(a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise ;
(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
storage or display ;
(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
processing by another enterprise ;I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 5A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or
of collecting information, for the enterprise ;
(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any
other activity of a preparetory or auxiliary character ;
(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub
paragraphs (a) to (e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this
combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person-other than an agent of an independent
status to whom paragraph 7 applies-is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in repsect of any
activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person :
(a) has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise,
unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through
a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the
provisions of that paragraph ; or
(b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise
from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise ;
(c) habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise or for the
enterprise and other enterprises which are controlling, controlled by, or subject to the same common control
as that enterprise.
6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall,
except in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it
carries on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an agent
are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he shall not be considered an agent of an independent
status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which
is a resident of the other Contracting State or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
ARTICLE 6
INCOME FROM IMMOVABLE PROPERTY
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property situated in the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracing State in
which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of,
or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources ; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as
immovable property.
5 — PG 17556A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this article shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any
other form of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this article shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an
enterprise and to income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
ARTICLE 7
BUSINESS PROFITS
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries
on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is attributable
to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracing State be attributed
to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise
engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the
enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative expenses so
incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, in accordance with the provisions
of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that State. However, no such deduction shall be allowed in respect of
amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by the permanent establishment to the head
office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of
patents, know-how or other rights, or by way of commission or other charges for specific services performed or for management,
or, except in the case of banking enterprises, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent establishment. Likewise, no
account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged (otherwise than
toward reimbursement of actual expenses), by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its
other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents, know-how or other rights,
or by way of commission or other charges for specific services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a
banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in paragraph
2 shall preclude Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may be customary;
the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with the principles
contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separetely in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 7A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
ARTICLE 8
SHIPPING AND AIR TRANSPORT
1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of aircraft in international traffic shall be
taxable only in that State.
2. Profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other Contracing State from the operation of ships in
international traffic may be taxed in the first mentioned State, but the tax so charged shall be reduced by an amount equal to
50 per cent thereof.
3. If the place of effective managment of a shipping enterprise is aboard a ship, then it shall be deemed to be situated
in the Contracting State in which the home harbour of the ship is situated, or, if there is no such home harbour, in the
Contrating State of which the operator of the ship is a resident.
4. Profits derived by a transportation enterprise which is a resident of a Contracting State from the use, maintenance,
or rental of containers (including trailers and other equipment for the transport of containers) used for the transport of goods
or merchandise in international traffic which is incidental to its international operations of aircrafts or ships shall be regarded
as profits derived from the operation of such aircrafts or ships in international traffic and would be taxed subject to the
provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 respectively, unless the containers are used solely within the other contracting State.
5. For the purposes of this Article interest on investments directly connected with the operation of ships or aircraft
in international traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the operation of such ships or aircraft it they are integral to the
carrying on of such business, and the provisions of Article 11 shall not apply in relation to such interest.
6. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or an
international operating agency.
ARTICLE 9
ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES
1. Where.
(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital
of an enterprise of the other Contracting State ; or
(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capitl of an enterprise of a
Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State.
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or
financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enteprises, but, by reason of those
conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State-and taxes accordingly-profits on
which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall make
an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment, due
regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall
if necessary consult each other.8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
ARTICLE 10
DIVIDENDS
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends
is a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other
Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends. The provisions of
this paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as
income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services
from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with
such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall
apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed
profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly
or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
ARTICLE 11
INTEREST
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises, and according to the laws of
that State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not
exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in
that State, provided that it is derived and beneficially owned by :
(a) the Government, a political Sub-division or a local authority of the other Contracting State ; or
(b) (i) in the case of India, the Reserve Bank of India, the Export-Import Bank of India, the National Housing
Bank ; and
(ii) in the case of Sri Lanka, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or
(c) any other institution the capital of which is wholly owned by the Government of that State, as may be agreed
upon from time to time between the Competent authorities of the Contracting States through exchange of
letters.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 9A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt claims of every kind, whether or not secured
by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from Government
Securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds or
debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment
or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent
establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such
interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then, such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in
which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case,the excess part of the payments shall
remain taxable according to the laws of each contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12
ROYALTIES AND FEES FOR TECHNICAL SERVICES
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they
arise, and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services is a
resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties or
fees for technical services.
3. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the
use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films
or films or tapes or discs used for television or Radio Braodcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model,
plan, secret formula or process, or for the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial for scientific
equipment, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience ;
(b) The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means payments of any kind, other than those
mentioned in Articles 14 and 15 of this Agreement as consideration for managerial or technical or consultancy
services, including the provision of services of technical or other personnel.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the roylaties or
fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent
personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties or fees for
technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the
provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
5. (a) Royalties and fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is
that State itself, a political Sub-division, a local authority, or a resident of that State. Where, however, the
person paying the royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contarcting State or
not, has in a Contracting State a paemanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the
liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for
technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for
technical services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or
fixed base is situated ;
(b) Where under Sub-paragraph (a) royalties or fees for technical services do not arise in one of the Contracting
States, and the royalties relate to the use of or the right to use, the right or property, or the fees for technical
services relate to services performed, in one of the Contracting States, the royalties or fees for technical
services shall be deemed to arise in that Contracting State.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right or information
for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the
absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the
excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the
other provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 13
CAPITAL GAINS
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in
paragraph 2 of Article 6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracing State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed base
available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independent
personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole
enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic, or movable property pertaining to the
operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company the property of which consists directly or
indirectly principally of immovable property situated in a Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
5. Gains from the alienation of shares other than those mentioned in paragraph 4 in a company which is a resident of
a Contracting State may be taxed in that State.
6. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 11A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
ARTICLE 14
INDEPENDENT PERSONAL SERVICES
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional
services or other independent activities of a similar character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following
circumstances when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State :
(a) if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
his activities ; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in
that other State ; or
(b) if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate
183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned ; in that case, only
so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that other State may be taxed in that other
State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or
teaching activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, surgeons, dentists and
accountants.
ARTICLE 15
DEPENDENT PERSONAL SERVICES
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived
by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom may be
taxed in that other State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in
respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if :
(a) the recipient is present in that other Contracting State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate
183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned ; and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of that other Contracting
State ; and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in that
other Contracting State.
3. Notwithstading the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment
exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic, by an enterprise of a Contracting State may be taxed in that
State.
ARTICLE 16
DIRECTORS' FEES
1. Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member
of the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
ARTICLE 17
ARTISTES AND SPORTSPERSONS
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
artiste, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his personal
activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the artiste or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of
Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsperson are exercised.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply to income from activities performed in a Contracting State
by artistes or sportspersons if the activities are substantially supported by public funds of one or both of the Contracting
States or of political subdivisions or local authorities thereof. In such a case, the income shall be taxable only in the
Contracting State of which the artiste or sportsperson is a resident.
ARTICLE 18
PENSIONS AND ANNUITIES
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration and any annuities
paid to a resident of a Contracting State in consideration of past employment and any annuity paid to such a resident shall
be taxable only in that State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in money
or money's worth.
ARTICLE 19
GOVERNMENT SERVICE
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a
political Subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State
or Subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State ;
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who :
(i) is a national of that State ; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political Subdivision or a local
authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or Subdivision or authority
shall be taxable only in that State ;
(b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of,
and a national of that State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration and to
pensions in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political
Subdivision or a local authority thereof.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 13A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
4. For the purpose of this Article, the term "Government" shall include any State Government or local authority of
either Contracting State.
ARTICLE 20
PROFESSORS, TEACHERS AND RESEARCH SCHOLARS
1. A Professor, teacher or research scholar who is or was a resident of a Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college or other
similar approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other Contracting State on any
remunertion for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his first arrival in that other
Contracting State.
2. For the purposes of this Article, an individual shall be deemed to be a resident of a Contracting State if he is
resident in that Contracting State in the fiscal year in which he visits the other Contracting State or in the immediately
preceding, fiscal year.
3. For the purposes of paragraph 1 "approved institution" means an institution which has been approved in this
regard by the Government of the concerned Contracting State.
ARTICLE 21
STUDENTS
1. A student who is or was a resident of one of the Contracting States immediately before visiting the other
Contracting State and who is present in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of his education or training shall,
besides grants, scholarships and any payments received from sources outside that State for the purpose of his mainteance,
eudcation or training, be exempt from tax in that other Contracting State on remuneration which he derives from an employment
which he/she exercises in the other Contracting State if the employment is directly related to his studies.
2. The exemption available under paragraph 1 above in respect of remuneration from employment shall not exceed an
amount equal to US$ 3,000 per annum.
3. The benefits of this Article shall extend only for such period of time as may be reasonable or customarily required
to complete the education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any individual have the benefits of this Article for
more than six consecutive years from the date of his first arrival, for the purpose of his education or training in that other
Contracting State.
ARTICLE 22
OTHER INCOME
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of
this Agreement shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provision of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent
personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14,
as the case may be, shall apply.14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not
dealt with in the foregoing articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that other
State.
ARTICLE 23
METHODS FOR ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE TAXATION
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting States shall continue to govern the taxation of income in the
respective Contracting States except when any provision to the contrary is made in this Agreement. When income is subject
to tax in both Contracting States, relief from double taxation shall be given in accordance with the following paragraphs of
this Article.
2. In India :
(a) Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may
be taxed in Sri Lanka, India shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident, an amount
equal to the tax paid in Sri Lanka ;
Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that portion of the tax as computed before the deduction is given,
which is attributable, as the case may be, to the income which may be taxed in Sri Lanka.
(b) Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement income derived by a resident of India is exempt
from tax in India, India may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income of such
resident, take into account the exempted income.
3. In Sri Lanka :
(a) Where a resident of Sri Lanka derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,
may be taxed in India, Sri Lanka shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident, an
amount equal to the tax paid in India ;
Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that portion of the tax as computed before the deduction is given,
which is attributable, as the case may be, to the income which may be taxed in India.
(b) Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement, income derived by a resident of Sri Lanka is
exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining
income of such resident, take into account the exempted income.
ARTICLE 24
NON-DISCRIMINATION
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which
nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be subjected. This
provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the
Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishement which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favorably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State carrying
on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other
Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or familyI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 15A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
responsilibities which it grants to its own residents. This provision shall not be construed as preventing a Contracting State
from charging the profits of a permanent establishment which a company of the other Contracting State has in the first
mentioned State at a rate of tax which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar company of the first mentioned
Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12,
apply, interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other
Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same
conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any
taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall apply to taxes covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 25
MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreements, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the Competent Authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident
or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case must
be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the
provisions of the Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to
arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the, case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracitng
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached shall
be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall resolve by mutual Agreement any difficulties or doubts
arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the elimination of double
taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an Agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to reach Agreement to
have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may take place through a Commission consisting of representatives of the
competent authorities of the Contracting States.
ARTICLE 26
EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information (including documents or
certified copies of the documents) as is foreseeably relevant for a carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the
administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the
Contracting States, or of their political Subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contracy to
the Agreement. The exchange of infomration is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner
as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including
courts and administraive bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect
of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such persons
or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings
or in judicial decisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received by a Contracting State may be used for other
purposes when such information may be used for such other purposes under the laws of both States and the competent
authority of the supplying State authorises such use.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation :
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State ;
(b) to supply information (including documents or certified copies of the documents) which is not obtainable
under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that or of the other Contracting State ;
(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional
secret or trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (order
public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall
use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not need such
information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations of
paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information
solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an
agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
ARTICLE 27
ASSISTANCE IN THE COLLECTION OF TAXES
1. The Contracting States shall lend assistance to each other in the collection of revenue claims. The Competent
Authorities of the Contracting States may, by mutual agreement, settle the mode of application of this Article.
2. The term "revenue claim" as used in this Article means an amount owed in respect of taxes covered by the
Agreement together with interest, penalties and costs of collection or conservancy related to such amount.
3. When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is enforceable under the laws of that Contracting State and is owed
by a person who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of that Contracting State, prevent its collection, that revenue claim shall,
at the request of the Competent Authority of that Contracting State, be accepted for purposes of collection by the Competent
Authority of the other Contracting State, and that revenue claim shall be collected by that other Contracting State in
accordance with the provisions of its laws applicable to the enforcement and collection of its own taxes as if the revenue claim
were a revenue claim of that other Contracting State.
4. When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is a claim in respect of which that Contracting State may, under its
law, take measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request of the
Competent Authority of that Contracting State, be accepted for purposes of taking measures of conservancy by the Competent
Authority of the other Contracting State. That other Contracting State shall take measures of conservancy in respect of thatI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 17A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
revenue claim in accordance with the provisions of its laws as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other
Contracting State even if, at the time when such measures are applied, the revenue claim is not enforceable in the first-
mentioned Contracting State or is owed by a person who has a right to prevent its collection.
5. The provisions of this Article shall be invoked on request of a Contracting State only after all permissible
measures of recovery under the domestic laws of that Contracting State have been exhausted.
6. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, a revenue claim accepted by a Contracting State for
purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that Contracting State, be subject to the time limits or accorded any priority
applicable to a revenue claim under the laws of that Contracting State by reason of its nature as such. In addition, a revenue
claim accepted by a Contracting State for the purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in that Contracting State, have any
priority applicable to that revenue claim under the laws of the other Contracting State.
7. Proceedings with respect to the existence, validity or the amount, of a revenue calim of a Contracting State shall
only be brought before the courts or administrative bodies of that Contracting State. Nothing in this Article shall be
construed as creating or providing any right to such proceedings before any court or administrative body of the other
Contracting State.
8. Where, at any time after a request has been made by a Contracting State under paragraph 3 or 4 and before the
other Contracting State has collected and remitted the relevant revenue claim to the first-mentioned Contracting State, the
relevant claim ceases to be :
(a) in the case of a request under paragraph 3, a revenue claim of the first mentioned Contracting State that is
enforceable under the laws of that Contracting State and is owed' by a person who, at that time, cannot,
under the laws of the Contracting State, prevent its collection ; or
(b) in the case of a request under paragraph 4, a revenue claim of the first-mentioned Contracting State in
respect of which that Contracting State may, under its laws, take measures of conservancy with a view to
ensure its collection. The Competent Authority of the first-mentioned Contracting State shall promptly
notify the Competent Authority of the other Contracting State of that fact and, at the option of the other
Contracting State, the frist-mentioned Contracting State shall either suspend or withdraw its request.
9. In no case shall the provisions of this Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation :
(a) to carry out administrtive measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State ;
(b) to carry out measures which would be contracy to public policy (order public) ;
(c) to provide assistance if the other Contracting State has not pursued all reasonable measures of collection or
conservancy, as the case may be, available under its laws or administrative practices ;
(d) to provide assistance in those cases where the administrative burden for that Contracting State is clearly
disproportionate to the benefit to be derived by the other Contracting State.18A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
ARTICLE 28
LIMITATION OF BENEFITS
1. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, a person (other than an individual), which is a resident of a Contracting
State and which derives income from the other Contracting State shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Agreement
otherwise accorded to residents of a Contracting State only if such a person has the qualifications as defined in paragraph
2 and meets the other conditions of this Agreement for the obtaining of any of such benefits.
2. A person of a Contracting State is a qualified person for a fiscal year only if such a person is either :
(a) Governmental entity ; or
(b) a company incorporated in either of the Contracting States, if
(i) the principal class of its shares is listed on a recognized stock exchange as defined in paragraph 5 of this
Article and is regularly traded on one or more recognized stock exchanges ; or
(ii) at least 50% of the aggregate vote or value of the shares in the company is owned directly or indirectly
by one or more individuals residents of either of the Contracting States or/and by other persons
incorporated in either of the Contracting States, at least 50% of the aggregate vote or value of the shares
or beneficial interest of which is owned directly or indirectly by one or more individual residents of
either of the Contracting States ; or
(c) a partnership or association of persons, at least 50% or more of whose beneficial interests is owned by one
or more individual residents of either of the Contracting States or/ and by other persons incorporated in
either of the Contracting States, at least 50% of the aggregate vote or value of the shares or beneficial
interest of which is owned directly or indirectly by one or more individual residents of either of the Contracting
States ; or
(d) A charitable institution or any other tax-exempt entity whose main activities are carried on in either of the
Contracting States.
Provided that the persons mentioned above will not be entitled to the benefits of the Agreement if more than
50% of the person's gross income for the taxable year is paid or payable directly or indirectly to persons who
are not residents of either of the Contracting States in the form of payments that are deductible for the
purpose of computation of tax covered by this Agreement in the person's state of residence (but not
including arm's length payment in the ordinary course of business for services or tangible property and
payments in respect of financial obligations to a bank incurred in connection with a transaction entered into
with the Permanent Establishment of the bank situated in either of the Contracting States).
3. The provisions of Paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply and a resident of a Contracting State will be entitled to
benefits of the Agreement with respect to an item of income derived from the other State, if the person actively carries on
business in the State of residence (other than the business of marking or managing investments for the resident's own
account unless these activities are banking, insurance or security activities) and the income derived from the other Contracting
States is derived in connection with or is incidental to that business and that resident satisfies the other conditions of this
Agreement for the obtaining of such benefits.
4. A resident of a Contracting State shall nevertheless be granted the benefits of the Agreement if the Competent
Authority of the other Contracting State determines that the establishment or acquisition or maintenance of such person and
the conduct of its operations did not have as one of its principal purposes the obtaining of benefits under the Agreement.
5. For the purposes of this Article the term 'recognized stock exchange' meansI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17 19A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
(a) in india, a stock exchange which is for the time recongnized by the Central Government under Section 4 of the
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 ;
(b) In Sri Lanka any stock exchange licensed by the Security and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka ;
(c) any other stock exchange which the Competent Authorities agree to recognize for the purposes of this
Article.
6. Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding paragraphs of this Article, any person (including individuals)
shall not be entitled to the benefits of this Agreement, if its affairs were arranged in such a manner as if it was the main
purpose or one of the main purposes to avoid taxes to which this Agreement applies.
ARTICLE 29
MEMBERS OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND CONSULAR POSTS
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts
under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
ARTICLE 30
ENTRY INTO FORCE
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in wirting through diplomatic channels, of the completion of the
procedures required by the respective laws for the entry into force of this Agreement.
2. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article.
3. The provisions of this Agreement shall have effect :
(a) In India, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year begining on or after the first day of April next
following the calendar year in which the Agreement enters into force ; and
(b) In Sri Lanka, in respect of income derived in any taxable year begining on or after the first day of April next
following the calendar year in which the Agreement enters into force.
4. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka for the avoidance of Double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on
Income and on Capital signed on 27th January 1982 shall terminate and cease to have effect when the provision of this
Agreement become effective in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article.
ARTICLE 31
TERMINATION
This Agreement shall remain in force indefinetely until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State
may terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Agreement. In such
event, the Agreement shall cease to have effect :
(a) In India, in respect of income derived in any fiscal year on or after the first day of April next following the
calendar year in which the notice is given and ;20A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.09.2013
(b) In Sri Lanka, in respect of income derived in any taxable year on or after the first day of April next following
the calendar year in which the notice is given.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement.
Done in duplicate at New Delhi on this 22nd day of January 2013, each in the Sinhala, Hindi and English languages,
all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
Prof. Gamini Lakshman Peiris M.P., Salman Khurshid,
Minister of External Affairs Minister of External Affairs
For the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic For the Government of the Republic of India
of Sri Lanka
PROTOCOL
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA ON SIGNING AT NEW DELHI ON 22ND DAY OF JANUARY 2013 THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH RESPECT TO
TAXES ON INCOME HAVE AGREED UPON THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS WHICH SHALL FORM AN INTEGRAL PART
OF THE SAID AGREEMENT.
(i) In respect of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 7, it is understood that where an enterprise of a Contracting State
sells goods or mechandise or carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent
establishment situated therein, the profits of that permanent establishment shall not be determined on the
total amount received by the enterprise, but shall be determined only on the basis of that part or the receipts
which is attributable to the actual activity of the permanent establishment for such sales of business.
Likewise in the case of contracts for survey, supply, services, contructions or installations, when the
enterprise has a permanent establishment, the profits of such permanent establishment shall not be determined
on the total amount of the contract, but shall be determined only on the basis of that part of the contract,
which is effectively carried out by the permanent establishment in the State where the permanent establishment
is situated ;
(ii) It is understood that in relation to this Agreement if at any time the provisions of the domestic law of a
contracting state are more beneficial to a resident of the other Contracting State, then such more benefical
provisions of the domestic law shall prevail over the provisions of this Agreement.
(iii) It is understood that, in respect of Article 10 on ‘Dividends’ the rate of withholding agreed to at 7.5% will be
subject to review after three years from the date the Agreement enters into force. In case this rate is not
reviewed after 3 years, the agreed rate of 7.5% will continue.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol
DONE in duplicate at New Delhi on this 22nd day of January 2013, each in the Sinhala, Hindi and English languages,
all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
Prof. Gamini Lakshman Peiris M.P., Salman Khurshid,
Minister of External Affairs Minister of External Affairs
For the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic For the Government of the Republic of India
of Sri Lanka
10 - 58
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA