I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 1A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
wxl 1837$14 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ ui 20 jeks nodod - 2013'11'20
No. 1837/14 - WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 10 OF 2006
Notice
IT is hereby notified under Section 97(1) (b) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, that the bilateral Agreement for
affording relief from double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion, entered into on 23.09.2011 between the Government of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Seychelles is set out in the Schedule
hereto, has been approved by Parliament by a resolution passed on 23.10.2013.
P. B. JAYASUNDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
19th November 2013,
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION
WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME
The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Seychelles
Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income,
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
Have agreed as follows :
ARTICLE 1
PERSONS COVERED
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
ARTICLE 2
TAXES COVERED
1. This Agreement shall to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State irrespective of the manner in
which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or elements of income.
3. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are :
(a) in Sri Lanka :
(i) the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises licensed by the Board of
Investment ; and
(ii) Social Responsibility Levy imposed under the Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005 in relation to income tax.
(hereinafter referred to as "Sri Lanka tax")
(b) in the Republic of Seychelles :
(i) the business tax ; and
(ii) petroleum income tax.
(hereinafter referred to as "Seychelles tax")
4. The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes on income which are imposed after
the date of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes made in their taxation laws.
ARTICLE 3
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a) the term "Sri Lanka" means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, including its land
territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well as the exclusive economic zone and
continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka exercises or may hereafter exercise
sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international law and its national legislation ;
(b) the term "Seychelles" means the territory of the Republic of Seychelles including its exclusive economic
zone and continental shelf where Seychelles exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with
the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea ;
(c) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean Sri Lanka or Seychelles as the
context requires ;I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 3A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
(d) the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of persons or any other entity which is taxable
under the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States ;
(e) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax
purposes :
(f) the term"enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any business ;
(g) the terms"enterprise of Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively
an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the
other Contracting State ;
(h) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise which has
its place of effective management in a Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely
between places in the other Contracting State ;
(i) the term "national" means :
(i) any individual possessing the nationally of a Contracting State ;
(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a
Contracting State ;
(j) the term "competent authoirty" means :
(i) in the case of Sri Lanka ;
The Commissioner General of Inland Revenue or his authorised representative
(ii) in the case of Seychelles ;
The Minister of Finance or his authorised representative.
(k) the term "business" includes the performance of professional services and of other activities of an
independent character ;
(l) the term "tax" means Sri Lankan tax or Seychelles tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any
amount which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement
applies or which represents a penalty imposed relating to those taxes ;
(m) the term "fiscal year" means :
(i) in the case of Sri Lanka : the year beginning on the 1st day of April ;
(ii) in the case of Seychelles : the year beginning on the 1st day of January.
2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State any term not defined therein shall,
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the purposes
of the taxes to which the Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing over a
meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
ARTICLE 4
RESIDENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, place of incorporation, or
registration or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State. This term, however, does not include any
person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in that State.
4 — PG 18474A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows :
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him ; if
he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests) ;
(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent
home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an
habitual abode ;
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of
the State of which he is a national ;
(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States
shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both
Contracting States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is
situated. If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent
authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 5
PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partey carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially :
(a) a place of management ;
(b) a branch ;
(c) an office ;
(d) a factory ;
(e) a workshop ;
(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources ;
(g) a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others ;
(h) a farm, plantation or other place where agriculture, forestry, plantation or related activities are carried on ;
(i) premises used as a sales outlet or for soliciting and receiving orders.
3. The term "permanent establishment" likewise encompasses :
(a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a drilling rig or ship used for the exploration
or development of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only
where such site, project or activities continue for a period of more than 183 days within any twelve month
period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned ;
(b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other
personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only where activities of that nature continue
within the country for a period or periods aggregating more than 183 days within any twelve month period
commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 5A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
(c) the performance of professional services or other activities of an independent character by an individual,
but only where those services or activities continue within a Contracting State for a period or periods
exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year
concerned.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed
not to include :
(a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise ;
(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
storage or display ;
(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
processing by another enterprise ;
(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or
of collecting information, for the enterprise ;
(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any
other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character ;
(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub
paragraphs (a) to (e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this
combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
However, the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) to (f) shall not be applicable where the enterprise maintains any
other fixed place of business in the other Contracting State through which the business of the enterprise is
wholly or party carried on.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person-other than an agent of an independent
status to whom paragraph 7 applies is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in repsect of any
activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person :
(a) has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise,
unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through
a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the
provisions of that paragraph ;
(b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise
from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise ; or
(c) habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State for the enterprise and other enterprises which are
controlled by it or have a controlling interest in it.
6. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it
carries on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status,
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an agent
are devoted wholly or principally on behalf of that enterprise, he shall not be considered an agent of an independent status
within the meaning of this paragraph, if it is shown that the transactions between the agent and the enterprise were not made
under arm's length condition.6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
7. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall,
except in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 6 applies.
8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which
is a resident of the other Contracting State or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
ARTICLE 6
INCOME FROM IMMOVABLE PROPERTY
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture
or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracing State in
which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agruculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply. Usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of,
or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources shall also be considered as "immovable property".
Ship, boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income drived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form
of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and
to income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
5. For the purposes of this Article, the term "agriculture" includes fish farming, processing, breeding and raising
aquatic species including specifically prawns, crayfish, oyster and shellfish.
ARTICLE 7
BUSINESS PROFITS
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries
on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is
attributable to.
(a) that permanent establishment ;
(b) sales in that other State of goods or merchandise of the same or similar kind as those sold through that
permanent establishment ; or
(c) other business activities carried on in that other State of the same or similar kind as those effected through
that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracing State be attributed
to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise
engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with theI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 7A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment. In any case where the correct amount of profits attributable to a
permanent establishment is incapable of determination or the determination thereof presents exceptional difficulties, the
profits attributable to the permanent establishment may be estimated on a reasonable basis.
3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are
incurred for the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment including executive and general administrative
expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere in accordance with
the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the taxation laws of that State. However, no such deduction shall be
allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by the permanent
establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments
in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission, for specific services performed or for management,
or except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent establishment. Likewise, no
account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged (otherwise than
toward reimbursement of actual expenses), by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its
other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents, or other rights, or by way of
commission for specific services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of
interest on moneys lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in paragraph
2 shall preclude Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may be customary.
The method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with the principles
contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separetely in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 8
SHIPPING AND AIR TRANSPORT
1. Profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other Contracting state from the operation of ships
in international traffic may be taxed in the first-mentioned State, but the tax so charged shall be reduced by an amount equal
to 50 per cent thereof.
2. Profits from the operation of aircraft in international traffic, shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which
the enterprise operating the aircraft is a resident.
3. For the purpose of this Article, profits from the operation in international traffic of ships or aircraft shall include
in particular :
(a) profits derived from the lease by the enterprise on a bare boat charter basis of ships or aircraft used in
international traffic where such lease is ancillary to the transportation of passenger or cargo ;
(b) profits derived from the lease of containers by the enterprise where such lease is ancillary to the transportation
of cargo.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business
or an international operating agency.8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
ARTICLE 9
ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES
1. Where
(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital
of an enterprise of the other Contracting State ; or
(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a
Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State.
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial
relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which
would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enteprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have
not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State-and taxes accordingly-profits on
which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall make
an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment, due
regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall,
if necessary, consult each other.
ARTICLE 10
DIVIDENDS
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends
is a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other
Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed :
(a) 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends, if the beneficial owner is a company (other than a
partnership) which holds directly at least 25 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends ;
(b) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are
paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares, "jouissance" shares or "jouissance"
rights, mining shares, founders' shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as income from
other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of
which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 9A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment situated in that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a
tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of
profits or income arising in such other State.
ARTICLE 11
INTEREST
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of
that State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not
exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State and derived by the
Government of the other Contracting State, including a local authority thereof, the Central Bank or any financial institution
controlled by that Government, shall be exempt from tax in the first-mentioned State.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, the terms "the Central Bank" and "financial institution controlled by that
Government" mean :
(a) In the case of Sri Lanka :
(i) the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) such other financial institution, the capital of which is wholly owned by the Government of Sri Lanka, as
may be agreed upon from time to time between the Governments of the Contracting States.
(b) In the case of Seychelles :
(i) the Central Bank of Seychelles ;
(ii) such other financial institution, the capital of which is wholly owned by the Government of Seychelles,
as may be agreed upon from time to time between the Governments of the Contracting States.
5. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured
by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from Government
securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds or
debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.
6. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein and the debt claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with (a)
such permanent establishment or with (b) bisuness activities referred to in (c) of paragraph 1 of Article 7. In such cases, the
provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
7. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a local authority, or a
resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not,
has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment in connectin with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid
was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishments then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the
State in which the permanent establishment is situated.10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
8. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case,the excess part of the payments shall
remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE 12
ROYALTIES
1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws
of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall
not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work (including computer software, cinematograph films or
films or tapes or discs used for radio or television braodcasting), any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula
or process, or for the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning
industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the roylaties arise, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected
with such permanent establishment. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 shall apply.
5. (a) Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political sub-
division, a local authoirty or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties,
whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment
in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and such royalties are borne by such
permanent establishment, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the
permanent establishment is situated ;
(b) Where under sub-paragraph (a) royalties do not arise in one of the Contracting States, and the royalties
relate to the use of, or the right to use, the right or property, in one of the Contracting States, the royalties
shall be deemed to arise in that Contracting State.
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid,
exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such
relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount of royalties. In such case, the excess
part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other
provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 13
CAPITAL GAINS
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article
6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 11A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracing State, including such gains from the alienation of such
a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole enterprise), may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic, boats engaged in inland waterways
transport or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships, aircraft or boats, shall be taxable only in the
Contracting State in which the place of effective management of the enterprise is situated.
4. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares deriving more than 50 per cent of
their value directly or indirectly from immovable property situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.
5. Gains from the alienation of any property, other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 4 shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a rsesident.
ARTICLE 14
INDEPENDENT PERSONAL SERVICES
(DELETED)
ARTICLE 15
INCOME FROM EMPLOYMENT
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived there from may be
taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in
respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if :
(a) the recipient is present in that other Contracting State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate
183 days within any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned ; and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of that other Contracting State
; and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment which the employer has in that other Contracting
State.
3. Notwithstading the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment
exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only
in that State.
ARTICLE 16
DIRECTORS' FEES
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member
of the board of directors or any other similar organ of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be
taxed in that other State.12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
ARTICLE 17
ARTISTES AND SPORTSPERSONS
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an artiste
such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his personal activities as
such exercised in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the artiste or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of
Articles 7 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artistes or sportsperson are exercised.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, income derived from activities referred to in paragraph 1
performed under a cultural agreement or arrangement between the Contracting States shall be exempt from tax in the Contracting
State in which the activities are exercised if the visit to that State is wholly or substantially supported by funds of either
Contracting State, a local authority or public institution thereof.
ARTICLE 18
PENSIONS AND ANNUITIES
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, any pensions or other similar remuneration paid to a
resident of one of the Contracting State from a source in the other Contracting State in consideration of past employment or
services in that other Contracting State and any annuity paid to such a resident from such a source may be taxed in that other
State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in money
or money's worth.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions paid and other payments made under a public scheme
which is part of the social security system of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
ARTICLE 19
GOVERNMENT SERVICE
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension, paid by the Government of a Contracting
State or a Local Authority, to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or authority shall be
taxable only in that State ;
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the services are rendered in that other State and the individual is a resident of that State who :
(i) is a national of that State ; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering such services.
2. (a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or a local authority or statutory body
thereof to any individual in respect of services rendered to that State or authority or body shall be taxable
only in that State.
(b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of,
and a national of, that other State.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 13A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration and
pensions in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a local authority
thereof.
4. For the purpose of this Article, the term "Government" shall include any State Government and the Central Bank
of either Contracting State.
ARTICLE 20
PROFESSORS, TEACHERS AND RESEARCHERS
1. A Professor, teacher or researcher who is or was a resident of the Contracting State immediately before visiting
the other Contracting State for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research, or both, at a university, college or other
similar approved institution in that other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other State on any remuneration
for such teaching or research for a period not exceeding two years from the date of his/her arrival in that other State.
2. This Article shall not apply to remuneration which a professor, teacher or researcher receives for conducting
research if the research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of a specific person or persons.
3. The term "approved" in paragraph 1 means an approval given by the Contracting State in which the university,
college, school or institution is situated.
ARTICLE 21
STUDENTS, APPRENTICES AND TRAINEES
1. Payments which a student, apprentice or trainee who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a
resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State for the purpose of his education or
training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education, or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such
payments arise from sources outside that State.
2. An individual who is a resident of one of the Contracting States at the time he becomes temporarily present in the
other Contracting State and who is so present as an employee of, or under contract with, a resident of the first-mentioned
State, or as a participant in a programme sponsered by the Government of the other State or by any international organization
for the primary purpose of -
(a) acquiring technical, professional, or business experience from a person other than that resident of the
first-mentioned State or other than a person related to such resident ; or
(b) studying at a university or other recognized educational institution in that other State.
shall be exempt from tax in that other State for a period not exceeding one year with respect to his income
from personal services.
ARTICLE 22
OTHER INCOME
The laws in force in either of the States shall continue to govern the taxation of income except when express
provisions to the contrary are made in this Agreement14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
ARTICLE 23
ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE TAXATION
1. The laws in force in either of the Contracting States shall continue to govern the taxation of income in the
respective Contracting States. When income is subject to tax in both Contracting States, releif from double taxation shall be
given in accordance with the following paragraphs of this Article.
2. Where a resident of a Contracting State derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, may be taxed in the other Contracting State, the first mentioned State shall allow, as a deduction from the tax on
the income of that resident, an amount equal to the income tax paid in that other State. Such deduction in either case shall not,
however, exceed that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable, as the case may
be, to the income which may be taxed in that other State.
3. The tax payable in a Contracting State mentioned in paragraph 1 shall be deemed to include the tax which would
have been payable but for the tax incentives granted under the laws of that Contracting State and which are designed to
promote economic development.
ARTICLE 24
NON-DISCRIMINATION
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which
nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be subjected.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishement which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favorably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State carrying
on the same activities.
3. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any
taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
4. Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as obliging either Contracting State to grant to individuals
not resident in that State any of the personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes which are granted to its own
individuals so resident.
5. The provisions of this Article shall apply to taxes which are the subject of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 25
MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE
1. Where a resident of a Contracting States considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result
or will result for him in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreements, he may, irrespective of the remedies
provided by the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which
he is a resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national.
The case must be presented within two years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance
with the provisions of the Agreement.I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20 15A
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to
arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracitng
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any Agreement reached shall
be implemented notwithstanding any time-limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual Agreement any
difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an Agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. The competent authorities, through consultations, shall
develop appropriate bilateral procedures, conditions, methods and techniques for the implementation of the mutual agreement
procedure provided for in this Article.
ARTICLE 26
EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeable relevant
for a carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning
taxes covered by this Agreement insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrarcy to the Agreement. The exchange of
information is not restricted by Articles 1.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner
as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including
courts and administraive bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect
of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such persons
or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings
or in judicial decisions.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation :
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State ;
(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration
of that or of the other Contracting State ;
(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional
secret or trade process or information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre
public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall
use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not need such
information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations of
paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information
solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
ARTICLE 27
MEMBERS OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND CONSULAR POSTS
Nothing is this Agreement shall effect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts
under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special Agreements.16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.11.2013
ARTICLE 28
ENTRY INTO FORCE
1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date on which diplomatic notes indicating the
completion of internal legal procedures necessary in each country for the entry into force of this Agreement have been
exchanged. This Agreement shall have effect as respects to taxes withheld at source, in respect of the amounts paid or
credited and with regard to other taxes on income derived during the taxable years beginning on or after the first day of
January next following that in which this Agreement enters into force.
ARTICLE 29
TERMINATION
This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by one of the Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end of
any calendar year after the period of five years from the date on which the Agreement enters into force.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto have signed this Agreement.
Done at duplicate at Colombo on the 23rd day of September 2011 in the Sinhala and English languages, both taxts
being equally authentic. In the case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
K. M. S. Kandegedara Jennifer Morel
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue Revenue Commissioner
For the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic For the Government of the Republic of Seychelles.
of Sri Lanka.
PROTOCOL
ARTICLE 13
CAPITAL GAINS
Both delegations acknowledged that their respective countries do not currently impose a tax on a Capital Gains.
Notwithstanding this it was agreed that, at the time of signing this Agreement, an Article on Capital Gains be included in the
Agreement, in the event that either or both Sri Lanka or Seychelles moved to introduce such tax.
It was also agreed that should either Sri Lanka and/or Seychelles introduce a capital gains tax in the future that they
shall duly notify the other within 90 days of the introduction of such and provide a copy of such legislation ; and on request
of either, be prepared to enter into negotiations to amend the Article.
12 - 356
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.